README.md, before:

# Trae Agent

[![arXiv:2507.23370](https://img.shields.io/badge/TechReport-arXiv%3A2507.23370-b31a1b)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.23370)
[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Pre-commit](https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent/actions/workflows/pre-commit.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent/actions/workflows/pre-commit.yml)
[![Unit Tests](https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent/actions/workflows/unit-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent/actions/workflows/unit-test.yml)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1320998163615846420?label=Join%20Discord&color=7289DA)](https://discord.gg/VwaQ4ZBHvC)

**Trae Agent** is an LLM-based agent for general purpose software engineering tasks. It provides a powerful CLI interface that can understand natural language instructions and execute complex software engineering workflows using various tools and LLM providers.

For technical details please refer to [our technical report](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.23370).

**Project Status:** The project is still being actively developed. Please refer to [docs/roadmap.md](docs/roadmap.md) and [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) if you are willing to help us improve Trae Agent.

**Difference with Other CLI Agents:** Trae Agent offers a transparent, modular architecture that researchers and developers can easily modify, extend, and analyze, making it an ideal platform for **studying AI agent architectures, conducting ablation studies, and developing novel agent capabilities**. This **_research-friendly design_** enables the academic and open-source communities to contribute to and build upon the foundational agent framework, fostering innovation in the rapidly evolving field of AI agents.

## ✨ Features

- 🌊 **Lakeview**: Provides short and concise summarisation for agent steps
- 🤖 **Multi-LLM Support**: Works with OpenAI, Anthropic, Doubao, Azure, OpenRouter, Ollama and Google Gemini APIs
- 🛠️ **Rich Tool Ecosystem**: File editing, bash execution, sequential thinking, and more
- 🎯 **Interactive Mode**: Conversational interface for iterative development
- 📊 **Trajectory Recording**: Detailed logging of all agent actions for debugging and analysis
- ⚙️ **Flexible Configuration**: YAML-based configuration with environment variable support
- 🚀 **Easy Installation**: Simple pip-based installation

## 🚀 Installation

### Requirements
- UV (https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)
- API key for your chosen provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google Gemini, OpenRouter, etc.)

### Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent.git
cd trae-agent
uv sync --all-extras
source .venv/bin/activate
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

### YAML Configuration (Recommended)

1. Copy the example configuration file:
   ```bash
   cp trae_config.yaml.example trae_config.yaml
   ```

2. Edit `trae_config.yaml` with your API credentials and preferences:

```yaml
agents:
  trae_agent:
    enable_lakeview: true
    model: trae_agent_model  # the model configuration name for Trae Agent
    max_steps: 200  # max number of agent steps
    tools:  # tools used with Trae Agent
      - bash
      - str_replace_based_edit_tool
      - sequentialthinking
      - task_done

model_providers:  # model providers configuration
  anthropic:
    api_key: your_anthropic_api_key
    provider: anthropic
  openai:
    api_key: your_openai_api_key
    provider: openai

models:
  trae_agent_model:
    model_provider: anthropic
    model: claude-sonnet-4-20250514
    max_tokens: 4096
    temperature: 0.5
```

**Note:** The `trae_config.yaml` file is ignored by git to protect your API keys.

### Using Base URL
In some cases, we need to use a custom URL for the api. Just add the `base_url` field after `provider`, take the following config as an example:

```
openai:
    api_key: your_openrouter_api_key
    provider: openai
    base_url: https://openrouter.ai/api/v1
```
**Note:** For field formatting, use spaces only. Tabs (\t) are not allowed.

### Environment Variables (Alternative)

You can also configure API keys using environment variables and store them in the .env file:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key"
export OPENAI_BASE_URL="your-openai-base-url"
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-api-key"
export ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL="your-anthropic-base-url"
export GOOGLE_API_KEY="your-google-api-key"
export GOOGLE_BASE_URL="your-google-base-url"
export OPENROUTER_API_KEY="your-openrouter-api-key"
export OPENROUTER_BASE_URL="https://openrouter.ai/api/v1"
export DOUBAO_API_KEY="your-doubao-api-key"
export DOUBAO_BASE_URL="https://ark.cn-beijing.volces.com/api/v3/"
```

### MCP Services (Optional)

To enable Model Context Protocol (MCP) services, add an `mcp_servers` section to your configuration:

```yaml
mcp_servers:
  playwright:
    command: npx
    args:
      - "@playwright/mcp@0.0.27"
```

**Configuration Priority:** Command-line arguments > Configuration file > Environment variables > Default values

**Legacy JSON Configuration:** If using the older JSON format, see [docs/legacy_config.md](docs/legacy_config.md). We recommend migrating to YAML.

## 📖 Usage

### Basic Commands

```bash
# Simple task execution
trae-cli run "Create a hello world Python script"

# Check configuration
trae-cli show-config

# Interactive mode
trae-cli interactive
```

### Provider-Specific Examples

```bash
# OpenAI
trae-cli run "Fix the bug in main.py" --provider openai --model gpt-4o

# Anthropic
trae-cli run "Add unit tests" --provider anthropic --model claude-sonnet-4-20250514

# Google Gemini
trae-cli run "Optimize this algorithm" --provider google --model gemini-2.5-flash

# OpenRouter (access to multiple providers)
trae-cli run "Review this code" --provider openrouter --model "anthropic/claude-3-5-sonnet"
trae-cli run "Generate documentation" --provider openrouter --model "openai/gpt-4o"

# Doubao
trae-cli run "Refactor the database module" --provider doubao --model doubao-seed-1.6

# Ollama (local models)
trae-cli run "Comment this code" --provider ollama --model qwen3
```

### Advanced Options

```bash
# Custom working directory
trae-cli run "Add tests for utils module" --working-dir /path/to/project

# Save execution trajectory
trae-cli run "Debug authentication" --trajectory-file debug_session.json

# Force patch generation
trae-cli run "Update API endpoints" --must-patch

# Interactive mode with custom settings
trae-cli interactive --provider openai --model gpt-4o --max-steps 30
```

### Interactive Mode Commands

In interactive mode, you can use:
- Type any task description to execute it
- `status` - Show agent information
- `help` - Show available commands
- `clear` - Clear the screen
- `exit` or `quit` - End the session

## 🛠️ Advanced Features

### Available Tools

Trae Agent provides a comprehensive toolkit for software engineering tasks including file editing, bash execution, structured thinking, and task completion. For detailed information about all available tools and their capabilities, see [docs/tools.md](docs/tools.md).

### Trajectory Recording

Trae Agent automatically records detailed execution trajectories for debugging and analysis:

```bash
# Auto-generated trajectory file
trae-cli run "Debug the authentication module"
# Saves to: trajectories/trajectory_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.json

# Custom trajectory file
trae-cli run "Optimize database queries" --trajectory-file optimization_debug.json
```

Trajectory files contain LLM interactions, agent steps, tool usage, and execution metadata. For more details, see [docs/TRAJECTORY_RECORDING.md](docs/TRAJECTORY_RECORDING.md).

## 🔧 Development

### Contributing

For contribution guidelines, please refer to [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Troubleshooting

**Import Errors:**
```bash
PYTHONPATH=. trae-cli run "your task"
```

**API Key Issues:**
```bash
# Verify API keys
echo $OPENAI_API_KEY
trae-cli show-config
```

**Command Not Found:**
```bash
uv run trae-cli run "your task"
```

**Permission Errors:**
```bash
chmod +x /path/to/your/project
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## ✍️ Citation

```bibtex
@article{traeresearchteam2025traeagent,
      title={Trae Agent: An LLM-based Agent for Software Engineering with Test-time Scaling},
      author={Trae Research Team and Pengfei Gao and Zhao Tian and Xiangxin Meng and Xinchen Wang and Ruida Hu and Yuanan Xiao and Yizhou Liu and Zhao Zhang and Junjie Chen and Cuiyun Gao and Yun Lin and Yingfei Xiong and Chao Peng and Xia Liu},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2507.23370},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.SE},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.23370},
}
```

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

We thank Anthropic for building the [anthropic-quickstart](https://github.com/anthropics/anthropic-quickstarts) project that served as a valuable reference for the tool ecosystem.

Commit message:

Simplify Docker mode and update README

README.md, after:

# Trae Agent

[![arXiv:2507.23370](https://img.shields.io/badge/TechReport-arXiv%3A2507.23370-b31a1b)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.23370)
[![Python 3.12+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.12+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/) [![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Pre-commit](https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent/actions/workflows/pre-commit.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent/actions/workflows/pre-commit.yml)
[![Unit Tests](https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent/actions/workflows/unit-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent/actions/workflows/unit-test.yml)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/1320998163615846420?label=Join%20Discord&color=7289DA)](https://discord.gg/VwaQ4ZBHvC)

**Trae Agent** is an LLM-based agent for general purpose software engineering tasks. It provides a powerful CLI interface that can understand natural language instructions and execute complex software engineering workflows using various tools and LLM providers.

For technical details please refer to [our technical report](https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.23370).

**Project Status:** The project is still being actively developed. Please refer to [docs/roadmap.md](docs/roadmap.md) and [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) if you are willing to help us improve Trae Agent.

**Difference with Other CLI Agents:** Trae Agent offers a transparent, modular architecture that researchers and developers can easily modify, extend, and analyze, making it an ideal platform for **studying AI agent architectures, conducting ablation studies, and developing novel agent capabilities**. This **_research-friendly design_** enables the academic and open-source communities to contribute to and build upon the foundational agent framework, fostering innovation in the rapidly evolving field of AI agents.

## ✨ Features

- 🌊 **Lakeview**: Provides short and concise summarisation for agent steps
- 🤖 **Multi-LLM Support**: Works with OpenAI, Anthropic, Doubao, Azure, OpenRouter, Ollama and Google Gemini APIs
- 🛠️ **Rich Tool Ecosystem**: File editing, bash execution, sequential thinking, and more
- 🎯 **Interactive Mode**: Conversational interface for iterative development
- 📊 **Trajectory Recording**: Detailed logging of all agent actions for debugging and analysis
- ⚙️ **Flexible Configuration**: YAML-based configuration with environment variable support
- 🚀 **Easy Installation**: Simple pip-based installation

## 🚀 Installation

### Requirements
- UV (https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)
- API key for your chosen provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google Gemini, OpenRouter, etc.)

### Setup

```bash
git clone https://github.com/bytedance/trae-agent.git
cd trae-agent
uv sync --all-extras
source .venv/bin/activate
```

## ⚙️ Configuration

### YAML Configuration (Recommended)

1. Copy the example configuration file:
   ```bash
   cp trae_config.yaml.example trae_config.yaml
   ```

2. Edit `trae_config.yaml` with your API credentials and preferences:

```yaml
agents:
  trae_agent:
    enable_lakeview: true
    model: trae_agent_model  # the model configuration name for Trae Agent
    max_steps: 200  # max number of agent steps
    tools:  # tools used with Trae Agent
      - bash
      - str_replace_based_edit_tool
      - sequentialthinking
      - task_done

model_providers:  # model providers configuration
  anthropic:
    api_key: your_anthropic_api_key
    provider: anthropic
  openai:
    api_key: your_openai_api_key
    provider: openai

models:
  trae_agent_model:
    model_provider: anthropic
    model: claude-sonnet-4-20250514
    max_tokens: 4096
    temperature: 0.5
```

**Note:** The `trae_config.yaml` file is ignored by git to protect your API keys.

### Using Base URL
In some cases, we need to use a custom URL for the api. Just add the `base_url` field after `provider`, take the following config as an example:

```
openai:
    api_key: your_openrouter_api_key
    provider: openai
    base_url: https://openrouter.ai/api/v1
```
**Note:** For field formatting, use spaces only. Tabs (\t) are not allowed.

### Environment Variables (Alternative)

You can also configure API keys using environment variables and store them in the .env file:

```bash
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-openai-api-key"
export OPENAI_BASE_URL="your-openai-base-url"
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-anthropic-api-key"
export ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL="your-anthropic-base-url"
export GOOGLE_API_KEY="your-google-api-key"
export GOOGLE_BASE_URL="your-google-base-url"
export OPENROUTER_API_KEY="your-openrouter-api-key"
export OPENROUTER_BASE_URL="https://openrouter.ai/api/v1"
export DOUBAO_API_KEY="your-doubao-api-key"
export DOUBAO_BASE_URL="https://ark.cn-beijing.volces.com/api/v3/"
```

### MCP Services (Optional)

To enable Model Context Protocol (MCP) services, add an `mcp_servers` section to your configuration:

```yaml
mcp_servers:
  playwright:
    command: npx
    args:
      - "@playwright/mcp@0.0.27"
```

**Configuration Priority:** Command-line arguments > Configuration file > Environment variables > Default values

**Legacy JSON Configuration:** If using the older JSON format, see [docs/legacy_config.md](docs/legacy_config.md). We recommend migrating to YAML.

## 📖 Usage

### Basic Commands

```bash
# Simple task execution
trae-cli run "Create a hello world Python script"

# Check configuration
trae-cli show-config

# Interactive mode
trae-cli interactive
```

### Provider-Specific Examples

```bash
# OpenAI
trae-cli run "Fix the bug in main.py" --provider openai --model gpt-4o

# Anthropic
trae-cli run "Add unit tests" --provider anthropic --model claude-sonnet-4-20250514

# Google Gemini
trae-cli run "Optimize this algorithm" --provider google --model gemini-2.5-flash

# OpenRouter (access to multiple providers)
trae-cli run "Review this code" --provider openrouter --model "anthropic/claude-3-5-sonnet"
trae-cli run "Generate documentation" --provider openrouter --model "openai/gpt-4o"

# Doubao
trae-cli run "Refactor the database module" --provider doubao --model doubao-seed-1.6

# Ollama (local models)
trae-cli run "Comment this code" --provider ollama --model qwen3
```

### Advanced Options

```bash
# Custom working directory
trae-cli run "Add tests for utils module" --working-dir /path/to/project

# Save execution trajectory
trae-cli run "Debug authentication" --trajectory-file debug_session.json

# Force patch generation
trae-cli run "Update API endpoints" --must-patch

# Interactive mode with custom settings
trae-cli interactive --provider openai --model gpt-4o --max-steps 30
```

## Docker Mode Commands
### Preparation
**Important**: You need to download a directory "_interal" from [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/164ivShb7VrjhO7S_159dIqskZeABryok/view?usp=drive_link) and unzip it into
trae-agent/trae_agent/dist/dist_tools. This is used to execute agent tools in Docker containers.

### Usage
```bash
# Specify a Docker image to run the task in a new container
trae-cli run "Add tests for utils module" --docker-image python:3.11

# Attach to an existing Docker container by ID
trae-cli run "Update API endpoints" --docker-container-id 91998a56056c

# Specify an absolute path to a Dockerfile to build an environment
trae-cli run "Debug authentication" --dockerfile-path test_workspace/Dockerfile

# Specify a path to a local Docker image file (tar archive) to load
trae-cli run "Fix the bug in main.py" --docker-image-file test_workspace/trae_agent_custom.tar

# Remove the Docker container after finishing the task (keep default)
trae-cli run "Add tests for utils module" --docker-image python:3.11 --docker-keep false
```

### Interactive Mode Commands

In interactive mode, you can use:
- Type any task description to execute it
- `status` - Show agent information
- `help` - Show available commands
- `clear` - Clear the screen
- `exit` or `quit` - End the session

## 🛠️ Advanced Features

### Available Tools

Trae Agent provides a comprehensive toolkit for software engineering tasks including file editing, bash execution, structured thinking, and task completion. For detailed information about all available tools and their capabilities, see [docs/tools.md](docs/tools.md).

### Trajectory Recording

Trae Agent automatically records detailed execution trajectories for debugging and analysis:

```bash
# Auto-generated trajectory file
trae-cli run "Debug the authentication module"
# Saves to: trajectories/trajectory_YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS.json

# Custom trajectory file
trae-cli run "Optimize database queries" --trajectory-file optimization_debug.json
```

Trajectory files contain LLM interactions, agent steps, tool usage, and execution metadata. For more details, see [docs/TRAJECTORY_RECORDING.md](docs/TRAJECTORY_RECORDING.md).

## 🔧 Development

### Contributing

For contribution guidelines, please refer to [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

### Troubleshooting

**Import Errors:**
```bash
PYTHONPATH=. trae-cli run "your task"
```

**API Key Issues:**
```bash
# Verify API keys
echo $OPENAI_API_KEY
trae-cli show-config
```

**Command Not Found:**
```bash
uv run trae-cli run "your task"
```

**Permission Errors:**
```bash
chmod +x /path/to/your/project
```

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## ✍️ Citation

```bibtex
@article{traeresearchteam2025traeagent,
      title={Trae Agent: An LLM-based Agent for Software Engineering with Test-time Scaling},
      author={Trae Research Team and Pengfei Gao and Zhao Tian and Xiangxin Meng and Xinchen Wang and Ruida Hu and Yuanan Xiao and Yizhou Liu and Zhao Zhang and Junjie Chen and Cuiyun Gao and Yun Lin and Yingfei Xiong and Chao Peng and Xia Liu},
      year={2025},
      eprint={2507.23370},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.SE},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.23370},
}
```

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

We thank Anthropic for building the [anthropic-quickstart](https://github.com/anthropics/anthropic-quickstarts) project that served as a valuable reference for the tool ecosystem.
